### The Pervasive Effects of Economic and Moral Value Incongruence: A Critique Of Finance

#### Undergraduate Senior Thesis by Bruno Kömel

[Critique of Finance](https://github.com/brunokomel/Critique-of-Finance/blob/gh-pages/SIP%20Final%20Draft.pdf)

Abstract: Markets worldwide have been so impressed with what finance can do that very few people have stopped to think about what finance should do. This is where the parallel between finance and the Man of Steel ends, but it is where the critique of a whole system begins. The world has failed to question whether financial markets have become inappropriately powerful. It is true that finance and creative accounting have increased firms’ profitability and market value, but it is also true that investment in such areas has deprived the economy of growth. Real product development has been malnourished as of late, while financial engineering has been spoiled rotten. This paper will provide an overview of how the American economy has suffered by putting its eggs in the wrong basket. The analysis will explore the shift from the real economy to finance, the ways the shift led to the crisis of 2008, and the true underlying reason for such an infamous swing. Such analysis will be followed by a critique of the system and of the findings themselves. 
The critique will establish assumptions from which a fresh understanding of the discipline of finance will flow. The paper will survey the basis for a proper understanding of the goal of the firm, which will then help the reader develop a proper understanding of the purpose of finance. The conclusions about the goal of finance will be arrived at through the use of deontological ethical frameworks and Reformed theological constructs, such as sphere sovereignty, common grace, and stewardship. Furthermore, the paper will conclude with recommendations for future research, namely the uniformization of terms and the “dumbing-down” of data, and with the advocacy of two crucial changes in the field, namely that companies should beware of financialization, and educators ought to take a normative approach to finance.


